Competitive programming (#7369)
girlscript/winter-of-contributing: Competitive_Programming/C++/Searching & Sorting/Binary Search/BinarySearchApplication.md

## Find Floor and Ceil of a element from a given array

Floor *is the gretest element in the array smaller than the element we want to find floor.*

Ceil *is the smallest element in the array greater than the element we want to find ceil.*

```c++
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
int find_floor(int arr[],int n, int element){
int start=0;
int end=n-1;
int indx;
while(start<=end)
{
 int mid= start+(end-start)/2;  
 if(arr[mid]==element){
     return arr[mid];
 }
 else if(arr[mid]<element){
 indx=mid;
 start=mid+1;
 }
 else
 end=mid-1;
}
return arr[indx];  
}
int find_ceil(int arr[],int n,int element){
int start=0;
int end=n-1;
int indx;
while(start<=end)
{
 int mid= start+(end-start)/2;  
 if(arr[mid]==element){
    return arr[mid];
 }
 else if(arr[mid]<element)
 start=mid+1;
 else{
 indx=mid;
 end=mid-1;
 }
}
return arr[indx];   
}
int main(){
int arr[]={1,2,3,5,6,7,8};
int element=4;
int n=(sizeof(arr)/sizeof(int));
cout<<"Floor of the element"<<find_floor(arr,n,element);
cout<<endl<<"Ceil of the element"<<find_ceil(arr,n,element);
return 0;
}
```
>Output:
>
>Floor of the element 3
>
>Ceil of the element 5

>Time Complexity O(log n)    , where n is the size of array

> Explanation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Approach:
```

- In floor of an element in the array we need to find the greatest element samaller than the element we wish to find the floor.
- example:
 array =[1,2,3,5,6,7,8] element = 4 for which we have to find the floor , 
 1. why Binary Search ?  because the array is sorted and we know that the element floor will be present in the array (ie. from start=0 to end=n-1 where n is the size of array)
2. so we find the mid element using start and end of the array index till the time start <= end.
3. then we compare array[mid] with the element for which we have to find floor.
4. and whenever we find any smaller element than 4 ,then we save it in a variable indx(as that can be a possible answer) and move the start to mid+1 , to find if other greater element that is smaller than the element (in this case 4).
5. After Binary Search, we will return the indx as it will have the floor of the element.

> - Similarily we can approach ceil, as we know ceil is the smallest greater element than the element for which we want to find ceil.

Reviewer: Place this above the code

> These are some of the programs that can be solve by Binary Search , Binary search is really important in competitve programming as it do the searching in O(log (n)) time .

Reviewer: Add this complexity with title.

> These are some of the programs that can be solve by Binary Search , Binary search is really important in competitve programming as it do the searching in O(log (n)) time .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Complexity
These are some of the programs that can be solve by Binary Search , Binary search is really important in competitve programming as it do the searching in ```O(log (n))``` time .
```

```c++
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
int find_floor(int arr[],int n, int element){
int start=0;
int end=n-1;
int indx;
while(start<=end)
{
 int mid= start+(end-start)/2;  
 if(arr[mid]==element){
     return arr[mid];
 }
 else if(arr[mid]<element){
 indx=mid;
 start=mid+1;
 }
 else
 end=mid-1;
}
return arr[indx];  
}
int find_ceil(int arr[],int n,int element){
int start=0;
int end=n-1;
int indx;
while(start<=end)
{
 int mid= start+(end-start)/2;  
 if(arr[mid]==element){
    return arr[mid];
 }
 else if(arr[mid]<element)
 start=mid+1;
 else{
 indx=mid;
 end=mid-1;
 }
}
return arr[indx];   
}
int main(){
int arr[]={1,2,3,5,6,7,8};
int element=4;
int n=(sizeof(arr)/sizeof(int));
cout<<"Floor of the element"<<find_floor(arr,n,element);
cout<<endl<<"Ceil of the element"<<find_ceil(arr,n,element);
return 0;
}
```
>Output:
>
>Floor of the element 3
>
>Ceil of the element 5

>Time Complexity O(log n)    , where n is the size of array

## Complexity
These are some of the programs that can be solve by Binary Search , Binary search is really important in competitve programming as it do the searching in ```O(log (n))``` time .

>The flow of document
>

> >Title -> explanation -> code -> Time Complexity 

Reviewer: remove this
